What we're gonna be doing right now
is making the schema type for our role,
because the way that we're gonna manage
who has what role,
is we can go into the side here
and click on roles,
and then we can both add people to that role
as well as add individual permissions.
So what we'll do here
is we'll go into our schema folder
and make a new file and we'll call that capital Role.ts.
And then in here,
we'll say export const Role = list,
let's see if we can auto import list from Keystone.
Boom, there it is.
Then inside of that, we have,
we just have fields right now.
We will have a lot more related to Access Control,
once we get this up and running.
This is kinda a chicken and the egg here. (chuckles)
We need to make the roles so we can apply
to who can manage the roles.
Inside of there we have a name field,
which is a text field from keystone,
that is imported from keystone forward slash fields,
and say isRequired is true,
then underneath that we'll have assignedTo
that will be a relationship,
that is reference to a User.role,
we'll put a quick little TODO: Add this to the user,
'cause we gotta,
if anytime you do like a two way relationship,
you have to reference,
create the reference on the other item as well.
And also say many is true.
Why?
Because many people can have this specific role.
And then the ui is itemView,
fieldMode is only gonna be read
and I'll show you why we do that in just a second.
So that's the very basics of that.
Let's go ahead and create the role field
on our user as well.
So open up our user in the schema folder
and we will go right below orders
and we'll add a new field which is called role.
And that is again,
a relationship with a reference to
the Role.assignedTo,
let's just triple check we got that capital T on there.
Yeah, assignedTo is equal to Role.assignedTo.
Okay, good.
Also along with that,
we'll need a TODO: Add Access Control,
once we have it up and running.
All right, so we just went ahead and created our role here.
Now we can go into our,
I believe it's our keystone.ts
and where we create all of our schemas,
we will also put a new one called Role,
that should have auto imported from our schema file, good.
And then we'll just give a quick restart
of our backend and we should see the role showing up.
While that's happening,
we're gonna need a bunch of additional fields
on here that are going to be our actual permissions.
And this is just gonna be a lot of typing,
so what I'm gonna get you to do is to go
and grab this file from the finished files folder.
Just because again,
this is not typing practice so real quick,
you can see here now we have roles here
and you can create a role
and you can basically say like
we can make this an admin role and assign it to Wes
but there is no additional check boxes
for what sort of permissions they have.
So we're gonna do that now.
So go to the finished files and grab the file
in the backend schemas folder called field.ts
or fields.ts.
And I'm gonna go ahead and make it myself here,
new file,
this one is lowercase fields.ts.
And inside of that,
we just have this code.
So again, go and grab this from the finished files.
I'm gonna explain it to you real quickly.
Here we are just making a bunch
of different permissions fields
for things that the user may or may not be able to do.
So can they manage the product?
Can they see other users?
Can they manage users?
Can they manage roles?
Can they manage the cart?
Can they manage orders?
And then each of those will have a default value of false
as well as a label that gives us a bit more
of a description as to what this thing is.
Finally, we're just generating some custom types here
and a list of all of the permissions, which is canManage.
And we'll go into why we did that in just a sec as well.
What we do now is we need to import all
of these permission fields into our role here
and the reason why I'm not putting it,
I'm just not directly putting it in this file is
because we also want to reference these lists of fields
in a couple other files.
And by putting it in its own file,
make sure that we don't have circular dependency issue.
So we'll go into our top here,
and what we do is just ...permissionFields,
and we should be able to auto import that permissionFields
from our fields folder or our file.
And yeah, we're in good shape there.
So what that will do is it basically
is just taking all of these copy
and pasting it in right here.
The fact that it did it in between doesn't really matter
but it's basically just adding them all in here
programmatically with a spread.
So now for your restart that sucker,
we should see the ability
to add different roles
to this specific user.
So here we go,
we'll create a role,
there we go, admin,
and then we'll say user can update
and delete any product,
user can query,
so in our case,
we're going to check box all
of these and then go ahead
and assign it to me,
and click on Create Role.
You can additionally go to a specific user,
and edit that user
and you should be able to select
from a list of roles on there.
So again, a role is going to be a,
let's go back to my crude layout here,
permissions, those are the check boxes that we've created,
then our role is going to be a collection of permissions
that we sort of sweep into one like,
one sort of giant role called can manageUser,
and then what we're gonna do
in the future is we're going to start working
on these access functions,
which will go into each of our schemas
and decide whether or not we can do something.